This video is brought to you by dollar shave club, go to dollar shave
club.com/biographics to get your starter set for just $5.
The power of ancient room seems absolute today,
but that wasn't always the case over 150 years before the great drama of
Julius Caesar,
the Roman Republic faced its greatest existential threat Carthage.
The great north African merchant and empire battled Rome for supremacy of the
Mediterranean and that the Vanguard of Carthage forces was one of the most
brilliant tacticians the world has ever seen. Hannibal four, nearly years,
Hannibal fought against the Romans waging,
a war that would ultimately decide the fate of the known world.
He invaded Italy and brought terror to the doorstep of Rome itself.
Every army sent against him was destroyed the brilliance of the general,
allowing him to repeatedly surprise baffle out, maneuver and out,
fight his enemy for a time. It seemed Rome itself would be conquered,
but in the end, Hannibal was undone not by Roman armies,
but by the apathy and greed of his own leaders.
He ended his days in EXR watching his Roman power grew unchecked over his
Homeland.
And eventually most of the known world this today is the story of
Hannibal.
To understand Hannibal,
you have to understand where he came from Carthage located in the modern day
capital of tunas on the coast of north Africa began as a small trade colony
and quickly bloomed into the center of a vast trading empire. At one point,
it controlled all or large parts of all the islands of the Western
Mediterranean, including course SAR and Sicily.
This brought them into conflict with the Roman Republic,
which was consolidating its hold on the Italian peninsula and expanding outwards
in search of power and wealth. In 264 BC,
the two powers went to war with each other.
The conflicts that lasted for over 20 years and was financially and militarily
are disaster for the IANS.
They were forced to S of control of much of their island territory,
which was a huge blow.
They were also forced by treaty to pay an indemnity to Rome,
which further sapped car's resources in the midst of this Hann was born in
247, BC, the son of Hamilton car Barker,
one of the leading car generals during the war with Rome,
Hamilton Kong was engaged a bitter political struggle with other Carin and
aristocrats for control of the country.
He decided that the best way to advance car's interests as well as his own was
to conquer the Iberian peninsula.
The modern day countries of Spain and Portugal.
There was enough territory and resources there,
especially silver mines to both pay the war at Toone Naton to rebuild
and pay for car's armies Hamel car left for this mission in 237
BC accompanied by his nine year old son.
Hannibal legend says that before they left Hamel car,
took his son to a temple and had to make a vow of eternal hatred towards Rome.
It would be many years before Hannibal would see the city of Carthage again,
over the course of the next nine years,
Hamilton car campaigned ceaselessly in Liberia,
gaining vast tracks of territory for Carthage and its vast amounts of wealth.
Flowing back to the CA mainly golden silver from mines in the conquered
territory.
During this time, Hannibal grew up surrounded by soldiers,
learning the science of war from his father and offices.
It was clear that the boy had a to for battle by the age of 18,
he was already commanding troops.
Hamma car Barker was killed in battle in 228 BC and commands of the Carthaginian
forces Inia fell to Hannibal's brother-in-law DRAL the fair.
Over the following years,
Hannibal gains more experience and influence has DRAL consolidated pathogen's
holdings and signed a treaty with the Romans designating the Ebro river as the
border between car controlled territory and that under the influence of Rome,
but has DRAL was assassinated in 221 BC.
And at only 20 years old,
Hannibal was appointed commander in chief of the army in Iberia.
Hannibal continued the Iberian conquest of his father and brother-in-law for the
next two years drawing right up against the ABRO river border house.
DRAL had agreed upon with Rome.
The Romans watched car's expansion in Iberia with growing concern in an attempts
to check Hannibal's power region.
They allied themselves with the city of SAAM.
Saum was far south of the ABRO river and Hannibal felt the Romans had violated
the treaty, setting the river as a demarcation line.
He laid siege to the city and captured it after eight months in 219 BC
Romes entered delegation to Carthage demanding that they turn over Hannibal to
them to face Roman justice.
But the Tian government appreciative of the treasure Hannibal's conquests were
bringing in back there general. The second war between car and Rome had begun
Hannibal decided on a bold strategy to defeat the Romans.
He would March a Overlands from Iberia across Southern Goul modern day,
France and invade Italy itself.
The Romans anticipated this and sent armies intercept him,
but he evaded them and made his way across.
Goul at the head of an army of 40,000 infantry,
8,000 cavalry and 38 wars. His troops came from all over the place.
Many were mercenaries fighting, not for country, but for treasure,
many more were local tribesmen who Hannibal recruited along the way who hated
Rome and would fight with anyone who opposed her,
always all on for the audacious Hannibal crossed the Alps in 218 BC,
the journey was hard going.
It's believed that half his army perished in the mountains,
including most of his elephants, but he took the Romans completely by surprise.
When he in the PO valley in Northern Italy recruiting allies among the local
population to bolsters ranks,
opposing him were two Roman armies commanded by the two consoles elected that
year Publius scoo was the older of the two and a season commander,
but he had been wounded in an earlier skirmish with Hannibal's forces and hadn't
yet recover. Tiberius Cron was brash and headstrong.
He was itching to engage Hannibal, despite SCO, cautioning him to wait.
The two armies faced each other across the river trivia.
The year was almost over new consoles would soon be elected for 217.
And Cron knew that he was about to lose his chance of glory.
Military victories were the surest way of political advancement in the Roman
Republic. Hannibal knew this and he sought to take advantage of it.
On December the 21st 218 Hannibal put his plan into motion.
He sent a force of P median Calvary across the river to harass the Roman camp in
response.
And prones deployed his entire army to drive them off the Romans pursued the
Newin back across the river.
Traia forcing the infantry to Wade through chest high water.
There was freezing cold in the snowy conditions.
By the time the army made it across,
they were exhausted and probably suffering from hypothermia Hannibal's army.
On the other hand was well rested and he quickly moved to engage of the
disorganized.
Romans suddenly a small force under the command of Hannibal's younger brother
Mego emerged from its hiding place and attacked the Romans from behind causing
the entire formation to break and run. It was a massacre.
Many Romans were killed fleeing for their lives and more drowned in the river to
exhausted to make it across.
It's believed the Roman army suffered 28 to 30,000 casualties that day
compared to only 5,000 for Hannibal.
The battle of the river tra was a resounding success for Hannibal.
It was the first demonstration of his tactical genius.
And the first time he had truly terrified Rome,
but it wouldn't be the last and one thing you don't have to be terrified of is
shaving with bad raises,
which I'd know something about are still use the cheap ones.
They cut up my head fairly bad. Obviously I don't shave my beards,
but I do shave up here.
Dollar shave club covers all of your grooming needs as well, shower,
oral care deodorants. And of course,
shaving dollar shave club sent me the ultimate shave start set,
which I have right here. It has all these essential ingredients you need.
Of course you have. Let me just get that right here. You got this razor,
it's got six blades. This is the executive handle, which I mean,
treat yourself well, get started with that. And of course with that,
you get something called a prep scrub, which you put on beforehand.
You have the shave butter, which of course you use ding.
And then there's my favorite thing right here.
My favorite thing is the post shaved you.
Now my head gets a little dry sometimes when I shave it.
So I just pop a little bit of that stuff on top and it's perfect.
So you can get started with dollar shave club today for just $5 for their
ultimate shave starter set. Just go to dollar shave club.com/biographics.
So you can get started with their ultimate shave starter set.
It's only $5 and also rounded out your grooming routine by adding any one of
their other products, just go to dollar shave club.com/biographics.
You get that $5 ultimate shave starter set. And after that,
the restock box ships at the regular price. Now let's get back to the video
In the spring of 217, Hannibal decided he needed to March south.
The Gaelic allies had won over after the battle of traia,
which not remain as friends for long.
If his army sat still and ate all the food in the region,
instead of fighting the hated Romans. Meanwhile, on the Roman side,
the two newly elected consoles were sent north with armies in order to stop
Hannibal, there were only two roads that Hannibal could use to advance south.
And the Roman plan was for each console to position his army on one of these
route,
forcing Hannibal to fight his way through them and giving the other army time to
reinforce GRE civilians was in command of the Eastern army on the AIC
coast while GAAS FLAS command at the west army at a,
this is south of theanine mountains in central Italy,
Hannibal was faced with too bad options, but again,
showing the audacity for which he was quickly becoming legends.
He chose the third route.
The honor river valley to the west of Flass position was known for flooding at
that time of year. And it was considered to be impossible to an army.
So it wasn't guarded.
Hannibal's army boldly crossed it in just four days though.
The March was not without loss.
Many men drowned in the marshes or died of infection.
And Hannibal himself was blinded in one eye by such an infection.
Hannibal once again had surprised the Romans by appearing where he wasn't
supposed to be Flamini sent were to civilians to come to his support.
Hannibal knew that he couldn't allow both Roman armies to combine.
So he resolved to destroy Flamini before civilians could arrive.
He attempted to go Flamini and to battle by laying waste of the countryside
around a he. And when that didn't work,
he boldly marched completely around Flamini us and cut him off from Rome.
Then he continued south.
If marching on the city Flamini was another Roman commander who was prone to
impetuousness and rash action.
And this ins insult by Hannibal could not go unchallenged.
He rallied his troops and started quickly after Hannibal,
while civilians was still too far away to help him on June the 21st hundred and
17 FLAS was pursuing the Carin army down in narrow road.
Hemin on the side by tall Hills and on the right by the shores of lake.
Chamine a thick mist hung over the area, reducing visibility.
The Romans were strung out in marching formation.
Still believing that Hannibal was ahead of them on the move.
Suddenly trumpets sounded from their left,
a unknown to the Romans Hannibal had doubled back during the night,
positioning his arm in the Hills, above the road.
He was in a perfect position to ambush Flamini.
The Romans were caught completely by surprise.
The Carthaginian forces rushed down the Hills and attacked the unprepared Romans
more units cut the road on both sides,
pinning the enemy between their swords and the waters of the lake.
Legionaries attempted to flee from the Carthaginians by swimming.
Most of whom drowned in their heavy armor FLAS was dead hacked to pieces by
Hannibal's Gaelic allies and the rest of the army. Didn't far much better.
At least 15,000 men were killed. And another 15,000 were taken prisoner.
The battle of lake Chamine remains to this day,
the largest and most successful ambush in military history with,
for men's army destroyed and civilian's army unexpectedly pinned and bla by
attacking go along the AIC coast.
That was now no one to oppose Hannibal Rome panicked at the thought of that
Carin in general,
at the gates to their city and appointed a dictator Fabius Maximus to save
the Republic. Hannibal, meanwhile decided not to attack Rome this time.
He didn't think he needed to in order to bring them to heal.
He figured by turning Rome's Italian allies against them and hampering their
ability to make war by destroying and looting their food supplies.
He could force him to the negotiating table.
The aim of the war was not to conquer the Roman Republic,
but to regain the lost territories of Sicily Sannia and Corsica and to humble
Rome, as Rome had done to Carthage at the end of the first war,
but Hannibal had misjudged his enemy.
The Romans were what modern military tactics would call a total war nation.
The fate of the entire a nation wrote on its military success.
They did not surrender.
They would rather Rome be burned to the grounds than negotiate with a victorious
enemy.
Many people consider Hannibal's bypassing Rome instead of preceding it in 217
as his greatest mistake, regardless, Hannibal was now loose south of Rome,
burning and pilling.
As he went viewed by fabs at the head of a new army fabs adopted a new
strategy instead of seeking urban battle with Hannibal,
he sought to contain him to shadow his movements and force him into making a
mistake. But this strategy wasn't popular with the Roman Senate,
especially not the Aris to crowds estates were being Lood in campaign.
They urged him to pursue a more aggressive strategy, but Fabius refused.
He'd already seen two Roman armies destroyed by Hannibal,
and he wasn't about to be the third,
but Fabius prestige was damaged when Hannibal escaped to planned in Ciment
through a clever R that a for learners and the Roman public was beginning to
derive him as a COE.
He was removed from his poster as a dictator and the Republic elected two new
consoles for 216 Tarus Varo and Amelia's Paulis
both were placed in co command of a massive new army of 86,000 men.
The largest RO ever field didn't order to stop Hannibal
Hannibal had spent the time has escaped from Fabius,
encouraging defections from Romans Italian allies in the south and attacking
Roman settlements.
He heard about the deployments of the massive Roman force against him and moved
quickly to strike first capturing the important supply depo at Canna on the AIC
coast. Once again,
he was forcing the Romans into a battle on the ground of his choosing on August.
The second 216,
the two armies met outside of can a VA in command of the army that day,
Roman law required the duke consoles to alternate command each day,
tightly packed his Legionnaires together in order to smash the IANS in the
center of the battle line. As a result though,
we had vastly more troops than Hannibal did.
Their battle lines were roughly the same size.
Hannibal anticipating this planned to use virus, deep formation against him.
He placed light infantry in the center of his line and his strongest infantry on
his two FLAS when the battle always joined the center of Hannibal's line was
forced back while the flanks held firm Hannibal's took on a Crescent shape,
drawing more and more Legionnaires to the center of the attack.
What they didn't realize, however,
was that they were being drawn into a trap pushing back Hannibal's line in the
center and not in the flanks.
They had surrounded themselves on three sides with enemy troops,
since they're already tight formation became even tighter to the point of many
Romans being unable to swing their weapons at this crucial moment,
the Carin cavalry who had chased off the Roman horseman earlier in the battle
returns and attacked the Romans from the rear,
the Roman army was now completely surrounded and Hannibal ordered all forces to
attack. It was a complete slaughter.
The Romans had nowhere to go and were killed by the tens of thousands.
By the time darkness fell there was and left of the Roman army.
It had been utterly annihilated.
The few survivors led by Varo escaped back to Rome to reveal the horror to the
Roman people. The totality of the defeat was astounding. In one day,
the Romans had suffered 68,000 casualties.
The deads included the other consular commander Amelia and over 100 other
Romans who held hide leadership positions in the Republic,
including 80 senators.
Hannibal's brother Mego demonstrated the scale of the victory by overturning a
large and filled with gold sign rings in the Carthaginian Senate.
Each ring taken from the hand of a slain Roman nobleman.
The battle a Cade would be the worst defeat suffered by Rome in her 1000 year
history as a Republic. And later as an empire, things got even worse.
The romance after Canna, the entire south of Italy,
Def defected to Hannibal's side,
including two of the largest cities on the peninsula Kaur.
And Tarren in addition,
the kingdoms of Macon and Syracuse allied with Carthage against Rome in less
than two years, Roman lost 20% of a military age males to Hannibal's campaigns.
The entire Italian peninsula was devastated.
And yet when Hannibal offered to negotiate peace terms,
the Roman Senate refused they would not give up. And so the war continued.
Hannibal did not March on Rome after cane, though many in his army,
he called for him to do so.
His reasoning for doing so was the same as when he didn't tank the city.
The year before that wasn't the goal of this war.
He continued to consolidate his position in Southern Italy,
rallying more Italian allies to his cause while the Romans returned to the
Fabian strategy of containment over open battle.
And this is the point where things started to go against Hannibal while Carthage
celebrated Hannibal's victories,
they seemed to treat the Italian invasion as a side show of the war.
Hannibal was never seriously reinforced or resupplied from Carthage.
All of car's available troops were being sent to places like Iberia,
where Roman army had been sent to block cannibals reinforcement and do efforts
to retake Sicily. The central failing of Carthage was coming to light.
They were too greedy trying to take too much territory,
fight on too many fronts at once.
This was caused by Carthage not being a martial culture.
The way Rome was sons of wealthy Carthaginian Aris Toras were not a expected to
serve in the army. The way Romans were. They relied heavily on mercenaries,
which required vast sums of money to maintain that in turn required,
territory and treasure from her existing armies and trade fleets.
The bottom line was that for essentially the entire time he was in Italy,
Hannibal was on his own fighting a personal battle with Roman being supported
very little by his home country.
He remains in essentially a stale mate in Southern Italy for years fighting back
and forth in a battle with an increasingly strong Roman force. Meanwhile,
the Romans repulsed the IANS in Sicily and in Liberia,
the Romans were using the same tactic.
Cannibal was recruiting local allies to fight on their behalf.
The turning points came in 204, B C SCO, Africanist, Romes,
best general who'd commanded armies to great success in Iberia invaded Africa
Carthridge seems unable to stop him.
And in desperation recalled Hannibal from Italy to defend the car Homeland.
And so 15 years after crossing the Alps,
Hannibal left Italy or HND and returned to Africa for the first time,
since he was a small boy in of a large army,
including veterans of his Italian campaign,
he faced SCO in 202,
but this time he faced an enemy who had studied Hannibal's tactics and the best
ways to counter him Hannibal's army was defeated in large part due to the
superiority of the Roman cavalry,
which had been a critical weakness of their armies in Italy.
The war was over Carthage was forced to agree to peace terms,
even harsher than that at the end of the first war,
essentially ending any hope of ever challenging Rome. Again,
Hannibal started a political career in Carthage after the war,
hoping to rebuild the country's shattered economy,
but he was driven into exile by his enemies who wanted to surrender him to the
Romans.
He found refuge in the court of the saluted king and heiaus III in Anatolia,
modern day Turkey.
He served as a chief military advisor there Baan Orus was defeated by the Romans
in 188 BC and Hannibal left again for the kingdom of Bethe,
which was on the shores of the black,
but the Romans eventually tracked him down and threatened the Bassians with
handing him over.
Hannibal heard they were coming and refused to be taken by his lifelong enemy.
He committed suicide by drinking poison.
As the Romans crossed to his home in 181 at the age of 66,
Carthage itself only outlived its greatest son by 35 years,
the Romans went to war with Carthage a third time in 146 BC capturing the city
and burning it to the ground. It's difficult to overstate.
The impact Hannibal has on world history.
His campaign was the last serious threat posed to the Roman Republic by an
external invader.
It would go on to become one of the greatest empires in world history.
The lessons learned against Hannibal were surely influential in that as their
militia army that had been beaten by Hannibal was transformed into a
professional force that defeated every opponent they faced when they weren't
fighting each other. Hannibal became a bogie man for every Roman.
When calamity would strike a Roman citizen in a common term,
a phrase was Hannibal, is it the gates?
Hannibal's tactics were revolutionary for the time period.
He lived in over the course of the next 2,200 years.
Every great commander studied Hannibal, including Napoleon Bonna heart,
Julia Caesar, and Robert E. Lee.
His tactics are still taught in military academies to date.
His victory at cane in particular is cited as a true masterpiece of
military strategy being the perfect battle.
How much would things have been different at Hannibal's invasion gone
differently? Well,
there's no way to know for sure that there is no doubt that he stands as one of
the most talented, audacious,
and truly great military leaders of not just the ancient world,
but of all world history. So I really hope you found that video. Interesting.
If you did, please do hit that thumbs up bottom below,
and don't forget to check it our fantastic sponsor dollar shave club.
And while you're checking them out before you go hit that subscribe BR and thank
you for watching